IT WAS A SENSATIONAL STORY.
TONIGHT, WE HAVE NEW
DOCUMENTS AND NEW INFORMATION ON
THE PRESIDENT'S MILITARY
SERVICE.
AND A COLOSSAL MISTAKE.
CBS NEWS REGRETS IT.
ALSO, I WANT TO SAY PERSONALLY
AND DIRECTLY, I'M SORRY.
HOW DID IT HAPPEN?
A CONVERSATION WITH THE TWO MEN
WHO LED THE INVESTIGATION.
THERE WAS A FAILURE IN THE
VETING PROCESS.
THE BIG CULL TRITT WAS HASTE.
TONIGHT, FALLOUT, THE CBS
REPORT.
IN THIS BUSINESS, THE SCOOP
IS OFTEN THE TROPHY PRIZED ABOVE
ALL ELSE.
VIEWERS AND READERS MAY NOT CARE
WHO BREAKS A NEWS STORY.
BUT WE JOURNALISTS DO.
AND THAT DRIVE TO BE FIRST
SOMETIMES CONFLICTS WITH OTHER
PROFESSIONAL IDEALS, NAMELY
GETTING THE STORY RIGHT AND
REPORTING IT FAIRLY.
TODAY, VETERAN JOURNALISTS AT
THE CBS NEWS PROGRAM "60 MINUTES
MINUTES" INCLUDING DAN RATHER,
STAND ACCUSED OF SACRIFICING
ACCURACY AND FAIRNESS FOR THE
SAKE OF A SKOUP.
AN INDEPENDENT PANEL, LOOKING
INTO THE REPORT, QUESTIONING
PRESIDENT BUSH'S SERVICE IN THE
AIR NATIONAL GUARD, SAID THAT
MYOPIC ZEAL -- CRITICS,
INCLUDING BLOGGERS, FIRST RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE DOCUMENTS IN
THAT POLITICALLY-EXPLOSIVE
STORY.
THE PRODUCER AND NEWS EXECUTIVES
ARE PAYING THE PRICE.
THEY'VE BEEN FORCED OUT.
IN NOVEMBER, DAN RATHER
ANNOUNCED HIS INTENTION TO STEP
DOWN AS THE ANCHOR OF THE CBS
EVENING NEWS.
THOUGH HE WILL CONTINUE AS A '60
MINUTES" CORRESPONDENT.
LATER, WE'LL TALK TO THE AUTHORS
OF TODAY'S REPORT.
BUT FIRST, JIM WOOTEN ON THE
FINDINGS THAT GAVE CBS NEWS AND
THE REST OF US A BLACK EYE.
WHEN THE TSUNAMI HIT --
Reporter: IN THE CONTINUOUS
FLOOD OF RECENT TSUNAMI
COVERAGE.
BANDA ACEH --
Reporter: SATURATING
TELEVISION NEWS.
DIANE, THIS MORNING, IS IN
THE AREA HIT FIRST AND HIT
HARDEST.
Reporter: WITH BIG NAMES AND
FAMILIAR FACES, RAISED AGAINST
THE DEVASTATION.
WITH DAN RATHER REPORTING
FROM SRI LANKA.
Reporter: IT'S DIFFICULT TO
REMEMBER THE STORM RAISED BY
THIS '60 MINUTES" REPORT,
BROADCAST FOUR MONTHS AGO.
DID THEN-LIEUTENANT BUSH
FULFILL ALL OF HIS MILITARY
COMMITMENTS?
Reporter: OR WHY THAT STORY
MAY HAVE HASTENED HIS
RETIREMENT.
I WANT TO SAY PERSONALLY AND
DIRECTLY, I'M SORRY.
Reporter: AND HOW IT HAS NOW
ENDED THE CBS CAREERS OF SEVERAL
OF HIS COLLEAGUES.
BUT THE 224-PAGES OF THIS REPORT
EXPLAINED WHY AND HOW THAT ONE
SEGMENT ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
NATIONAL GUARD SERVICE AIRED
DURING HIS FRACTIOUS CAMPAIGN
FOR RE-ELECTION --
GEORGE BUSH HAS YET TO
EXPLAIN TO AMERICA WHETHER OR
NOT -- AND TELL THE TRUTH ABOUT
WHETHER HE SHOWED UP FOR DUTY.
Reporter: HAS NOW COME BACK
TO HAUNT CBS, ONE OF AMERICA'S
MOST PRESTIGIOUS NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS.
SEPTEMBER 8th LAST YEAR.
'"60 MINUTES" HAS OBTAINED --
Reporter: RATHER OBTAINS
DOCUMENTS PROBUSH'S NATIONAL
GUARD COMMANDER.
LATER, THEY SAY THEY'RE SOURCE
WAS A FORMER GUARD OFFICER,
KNOWN FOR HIS ANTAGONISM TOWARD
THE PRESIDENT.
THE DOCUMENTS QUESTIONED THE
MANNER IN WHICH MR. BUSH
FULFILLED HIS DUTIES DURING THE
VIETNAM WAR.
BUT THE AUTHENTICITY IS
IMMEDIATELY CHALLENGED AND
CHARGES OF FORGERY ARE RAISED.
I FOUND FIVE SIGNIFICANT
DIFFERENCES --
Reporter: STILL, RIG LOUSELY,
STEADFASTLY, CBS DEFENDS THE
STORY.
UNTIL, AT LAST, AFTER NEARLY TWO
WEEKS, THIS MEA CULPA --
THE FAILURE TO PROPERLY
SCRUTINIZE THE DOCUMENTS AND
THEIR SOURCE, LED TO OUR AIRING
THE DOCUMENTS WHEN WE SHOULD NOT
HAVE DONE SO.
IT WAS A MISTAKE.
CBS NEWS DEEPLY REGRETS IT.
Reporter: AND EVENTUALLY TWO
MONTHS LATER, THERE WAS THIS
FROM RATHER, AS WELL.
A FEW WARDS ABOUT THE CBS
NEWS.
I'VE DECIDED IT'S TIME TO MOVE
ON.
I'LL WILL LEAVING THE EVENING
NEWS NEXT MARCH.
Reporter: THE NETWORK
COMMISSIONED AN INDEPENDENT
ENTIRELY, HEADED BY RICHARD
TORNBURG AND FORMER ASSOCIATED
PRESS PRESIDENT, LEWIS BOCCARDI.
AND THEIR REPORT FOUND A LITANY
OF MISSTEPS IN THE BROADCAST.
WE CONSULTED A HANDWRITING
ANALYST AND DOCUMENT EXPERT WHO
BELIEVES THE MATERIAL IS
AUTHENTIC.
Reporter: AMONG THEM, THE
NETWORKS FAILURE TO OBTAIN CLEAR
AUTHENTICATION OF THE DOCUMENTS.
AND ITS FALSE STATEMENT THAT
EXPERTS HAD VOUCHED FOR THEIR
AUTHENTICITY.
MOREOVER, THE REPORT SAYS --
AND AFTERWARDS, CBS MOUNTED A
STRIDENT DEFENSE, WITHOUT
ADEQUATELY PROBING WHETHER THE
QUESTIONS RAISED HAD MERIT.
THOSE WHO CRITICIZED ASPECTS
OF OUR STORY, NEVER CRITICIZED
THE HEART OF IT.
Reporter: IN SUMMARY, THE
REPORT SAYS CBS NEWS WAS DRIVEN
BY A MYOPIC ZEAL, THAT 3R0
DEUCED A STORY THAT WAS NEITHER
FAIR MORE ACCURATE.
AND DID NOT FULFILL THE NETWORK
OS CORE PRINCIPALS OF JOURNALISM
OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY AND
UNIMPEACHABLE INTEGRITY.
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT OF THE
NETWORK DID NOT TAKE ISSUE WITH
THAT VERDICT.
THERE'S NO QUESTION THERE
ISN'T ONE OF CBS NEWS' GREATEST
MOMENTS.
CLEARLY, WE HAVE REHABILITATION
TO DO.
HOPEFULLY, TODAY IS THE FIRST
STEP TO DOING THAT.
Reporter: THE CASUALTIES
INCLUDE THREE EXECUTIVES.
BETSY WEST, THE NUMBER TWO
EXECUTIVE IN THE NEWS DIVISION,
WHO PERSONALLY SUPERVISED THE
SEGMENT.
THE REPORT SAYS THAT IN THE WAKE
OF THE BROADCAST, SHE WAS
ORDERED TO INVESTIGATE THE
AUTHENTICITY OF THE DOCUMENTS
AND FAILED TO DO SO.
ALSO OUT, ARE JOSH HOWARD,
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER OF '60
MINUTES WEDNESDAY" AND HIS
DEPUTY, MARY MURPHY.
MARY MAPES, A CBS VETERAN THAT
PRODUCED THE STORY WITH RATHER
WAS ALSO FIRED.
REPORT SAYS SHE ARRANGED THE
CONTACT BETWEEN THE LIEUTENANT
COLONEL AND THE KERRY CAMPAIGN,
WHICH CREATED THE APPEARANCE OF
A POLITICAL BIAS.
THE PRESIDENT OF CBS NEWS,
ANDREW HAYWARD, WILL REMAIN IN
HIS JOB.
TIME AND AGAIN, ANDREW SAID,
DO NOT PUT THIS ON THE AIR UNTIL
IT'S READY.
DON'T BE STEAM-ROLLED.
I WANT EVERY SYLLABLE CHECKED
BEFORE THE REPORT GOES ON THE
AIR.
I THINK WHAT HE WAS GUILTY OF
WAS THE FAILURE OF HIS PEOPLE.
Reporter: AS FOR RATHER, WHO
RETURNED TO NEW YORK FROM ASIA,
ONLY LAST NIGHT, HE WILL
CONTINUE ON '60 MINUTES."
BUT WILL PRESIDE OVER EXACTLY 42
MORE EVENING BROADCASTS BEFORE
HIS FINAL APPEARANCE IN THE
ANCHOR CHAIR.
JIM WOOTEN, FOR "NIGHTLINE," IN
WASHINGTON.
SO, DOES TODAY'S REPORT ON
CBS NEWS ANSWER ALL THE
QUESTIONS?
WE'LL TALK TO THE AWE THOFRS
THOSE FINDINGS WHEN WE COME
BACK.
I'M JOINED BY THE TWO
GENTLEMEN BEHIND TODAY'S REPORT.
RICHARD THORNBURGH, THE FORMER
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
AND LEWIS BOCCARDI, THE FORMER
CHIEF OFFICER OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS.
YOUR REPORT BLAMES A 3450I OFIC
ZEAL TO BE FIRST.
AT THE SAME TIME, IT CONCLUDES
THAT "60 MINUTES" WAS NOT DRIVEN
BY ANY POLITICAL AGENDA.
HOW IS THAT POSSIBLE?
THE SUFFICIENCIES IN THE
PRODUCTION OF SEPTEMBER 8 WERE
LARGELY A FAILURE TO OBSERVE A
STANDARDS THAT CBS HAD SET WITH
REGARD TO ACCURACY AND FAIRNESS.
THE BIG CULPRIT WAS HASTE.
A RUSH TO AIR THE PROGRAM ON
SEPTEMBER 8, WHEN MORE CAUTION
SHOULD HAVE BEEN EXERCISED IN
VETING THE SOURCES AND IN
VERIFYING THE DOCUMENTS
INVOLVED.
AT THE SAME TIME -- AT THE
SAME TIME, MR. THORNBURGH, THE
SOURCE OF THOSE DOCUMENTS, BILL
BURKETT, CLEARLY DID HAVE A
POLITICAL AX TO GRIND.
THAT WAS KNOWN TO THE PRODUCERS
OF THE PROGRAM.
NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
IT WAS KNOWN TO SOME OF THOSE
WHO WERE INVOLVED IN VETING THE
PROCESS.
I'M SURE A LOT OF NEWS REPORTERS
GET INFORMATION FROM PERSONS
WITH THEIR OWN AGENDA.
THE KEY IS HOW CAREFULLY DO THEY
VET IT?
IN THIS CASE, WE LOOK VERY
CLOSELY FOR ANY SIGN OF A TRUE
PARTISAN BIAS ON THE PART OF CBS
AND ITS PERSONNEL.
AND WE DIDN'T FIND IT.
THEY WEREN'T THE ONLY NEWS
ORGANIZATION CHASING THIS STORY.
WHAT WE DID CRITICIZE THEM FOR
WAS THE INSENSITIVETY TO THE
APPEARANCES OF USING A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE AS SOURCES WHO HAD THEIR
OWN POLITICAL AGENDAS.
AND IN PARTICULAR, FOR PUTTING
THEIR SOURCE AND HIS ANTI-BUSH
BIAS IN TOUCH WITH RESPECTIVES
OF THE CAMPAIGN OF SENATOR JOHN
KERRY.
THAT, WE THOUGHT WAS HIGHLY
IMPROPER AND INAPPROPRIATE.
AND THAT GOES BEYOND JUST
GETTING INFORMATION FROM THE
SOURCE.
THAT ACTUALLY INVOLVED, PERHAPS,
THE ADVANCING OF A POLITICAL
CAUSE, DOES IT NOT?
IT DOES.
IT GOES BEYOND ANYTHING I WOULD
CONSIDER JOURNALISTICALLY
ACCEPTABLE.
DID NO ONE --
I WANT TO SAY THAT CLEARLY.
DID NO ONE AT THE SENIOR
LEVELS OF CBS NEWS -- AND LET'S
NOT FORGET HERE, WE ARE IN THE
THICK OF A PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
WHEN THIS IS GOING ON.
SO, DID NO ONE AT THE SENIOR
LEVELS OF CBS NEWS SAY WAIT A
MINUTE -- WHO IS THIS GUY?
MR. BURKETT?
AND WHAT ARE HIS POLITICAL
MOTIVATIONS AT THIS TIME IN
HISTORY?
WELL, THAT'S ONE OF THE MANY
POINTS THAT WE HAVE SO MANY
CONFLICTING VIEWS OF.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE IN CHARGE OF
VETING, THAT IS CLEARING THE
PROGRAM, SAY THAT THEY DIDN'T
GET THE BACKGROUND THEY WANTED.
THEY DIDN'T KNOW NEARLY ENOUGH
ABOUT WHERE THESE THINGS HAD
COME FROM.
THE PRODUCER, MISS MAPES, SAID
SHE ANSWERED ALL THE QUESTIONS
SHE WAS ASKED.
AND LAID OUT THE BACKGROUND OF
THE PERSON FROM WHOM SHE GOT THE
DOCUMENTS.
NOW THAT LEAVES YOU NEEDING TO
LOOK, AS WE DID, EVEN MORE
WIDELY, WHICH IS TO SAY, TO LOOK
AT THE CHAIN OF CUSTODY OF THE
DOCUMENTS, TO LOOK AT WHAT STEPS
HAD BEEN MADE TO AUTHENTICATE
THE DOCUMENTS.
YOU KNOW, YOU CAN GET
INFORMATION, DOCUMENTS, FOOTAGE,
PICTURES, HANDOUTS, FROM
SOMEBODY WITH THE WORST MOTIVES
YOU CAN IMAGINE.
IT DOESN'T MEAN BY DEFINITION
IT'S UNTRUE.
BUT YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT THESE
OTHER THINGS.
MR. THORNBURGH, THE PRODUCER
OF THAT SEGMENT, MARY MAPES HAS
ISSUED A STATEMENT TONIGHT, IN
WHICH SHE BASICALLY SAYS SHE IS
BEING MADE A SCAPEGOAT.
ONE PART OF HER STATEMENT
SAYS --
DID YOU FIND THAT TO BE THE CASE
OR NOT?
THAT'S BEEN MS. MAPES'
POSITION ALL ALONG.
WE UNDERTOOK A THOROUGH AND
DETAILED EXAMINATION OF THE
DOCUMENTS, COMPARING THEM TO
OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS
WITH REGARD TO PRESIDENT BUSH'S
TENURE IN THE GUARD.
AND FOUND NUMEROUS DISCREPANCIES
THAT WE SET FORTH AT SOME LENGTH
IN THE REPORT.
THE MESHING NOTION SIMPLY
DOESN'T HOLD UP.
AND THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS,
THAT THERE ARE SO MANY
DISCREPANCIES WITH REGARD TO
JARGON, WITH REGARD TO FORMAT,
NOT TO MENTION THE LINGERING
CONCERNS ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
THE TYPE FACE, THE FONT, AND
OTHER ATTRIBUTES OF THE
DOCUMENTS THEMSELVES WAS
AVAILABLE DURING THE 1970s, WHEN
THESE DOCUMENTS ARE ALLEGEDLY
HAVE BEEN PREPARED.
WE CAN'T MAKE A FINAL
DETERMINATION ON A LOT OF THE
QUESTIONS.
BUT WE SURE ENOUGH KNOW, THAT
NOT ENOUGH QUESTIONS WERE ASKED
ABOUT THEM PRIOR TO THEM AIRING
ON SEPTEMBER 8th.
WHAT ABOUT THE LARGER POINT
THAT MARY MAPES MAKES -- AT THE
END OF THE DAY, THE PANEL COULD
NOT DETERMINE THAT THE DOCUMENTS
WERE FALSE?
I THINK YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE REASONING THAT WE PUT IN THE
REPORT AND UNDERSTAND WHERE
WE'RE COMING FROM ON THAT POINT.
WE ABSOLUTELY DID NOT, IN AN
INVESTIGATION OF A SHOW THAT
MADE CHARGES THAT IT COULDN'T
SUBSTANTIATE, WE DID NOT WANT TO
COMMIT THE SAME MISTAKE, WHICH
IS TO MAKE FINDINGS WE COULDN'T
PROVE.
AT THE END OF THE DAY, WE
DON'T KNOW IF THE CBS DOCUMENT,
THE CBS REPORT IS TRUE OR NOT?
WE'VE GONE THIS FAR.
IT'S IN THE REPORT -- WE SAID WE
CAN'T SAY THAT THE FORGERIES,
WHAT WE FIND MANY REASONS TO
HAVE GRAVE DOUBTS ABOUT THE
AUTHENTICITY OF THE DOCUMENTS.
THAT'S AS FAR AS WE FELT WE
COULD GO WITHOUT MAKING THE SAME
MISTAKE THE SHOW MADE.
AND WE THOUGHT THAT WAS FAIRLY
FAR.
WE HAVE TO TAKE A SHORT
BREAK.
BUT WHEN WE COME BACK, I WANT TO
ADDRESS THE ROLE OF DAN RATHER
IN ALL OF THIS.
I'M BACK, WITH RICHARD
THORNBURGH AND LEWIS BOCCARDI.
WE HEARD MARY MAPES AND THREE
EXECUTIVES OF CBS NEWS WAS SHOWN
THE DOOR.
WHY WASN'T DAN RATHER HELD
EQUALLY ACCOUNTABLE?
THAT'S A QUESTION YOU HAVE TO
PUT TO THE MANAGEMENT AT CBS.
WE WERE NOT ASKED FOR AND DIDN'T
OFFER ANY SUGGESTIONS OR
OBSERVATIONS ON THE EMPLOYMENT
STATUS OF ANY OF THE INDIVIDUALS
INVOLVED.
CERTAINLY, YOU TOOK A LOOK AT
HIS RESPONSIBILITY IN ALL OF
THIS?
I THINK THE BEST AUTHORITY I
CAN CITE FOR AN EVALUATION OF
MR. RATHER'S PERFORM MANS MANSE
IS HIS OWN ASSESSMENT, MADE 12
DAYS AFTER THE SEPTEMBER 8th
SEGMENT WAS SHOWN.
HE SAID THEN, "I DIDN'T DIG HARD
ENOUGH, LONG ENOUGH, DIDN'T ASK
ENOUGH OF THE RIGHT QUESTIONS."
MY VIEW, THAT COULD BE DAN
RATHER SPEAKING FOR MOST OF THE
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THIS PROCESS.
MR. BOCCARID, DID THE VETING
PROCESS NOT PERFORM WELL, PARTLY
BECAUSE OF WHO DAN RATHER IS?
HERE YOU HAVE THE FLAGSHIP
ANCHORMAN AND A STAR PRODUCER
FOR "60 MINUTES."
WERE THEY ESSENTIALLY GIVEN A
PASS IN THE VETING PROCESS?
I WASN'T A SAY THEY WERE
GIVEN A PASS.
BUT IT WOULD BE NAIVE TO THINK
THAT MS. MAPES WAS REGARDED AS A
STAR PRODUCER.
AND DAN HAS HAD THE CAREER THAT
HE'S HAD AT CBS AND IS SO MUCH
THE EMBODIMENT OF CBS NEWS.
IT WOULD BE NAIVE TO THINK THAT
THOSE TWO FACTORS DIDN'T PLAY
SOME ROLE HERE.
BUT IT'S JUST TOO SIMPLISTIC TO
SAY THAT THEY GOT A PASS,
BECAUSE OF WHO THEY ARE.
THERE WAS A VETING PROCESS.
IT WASN'T NEARLY STRINGENT
ENOUGH.
IT WASN'T TOUGH ENOUGH, IN
GETTING THE KIND OF DETAIL THAT
YOU HAVE TO HAVE, IF YOU'RE
GOING TO MOVE THROUGH A STORY
LIKE THIS FOR AIR.
AND IT BROKE DOWN ON THE ISSUE
OF AUTHENTICATION.
THE VETERS NEVER REALLY HAD A
GOOD GRASP OF THE LEVEL OF
AUTHENTICATION.
IT WAS YOUR NETWORK THAT BROUGHT
TO AIR TWO OF THE EXAMINERS WHO
HAD WARNED CBS BEFOREHAND THAT
THEY HAD TROUBLE WITH THESE
THINGS.
AND ONE OF THEM, IN FACT, SAID
THAT EVERY -- MANY DOCUMENT
EXAMINERS WILL BE AFTER YOU, IF
YOU GO ON THE AIR WITH THIS.
THERE IS AN OLD CLICHE IN
WASHINGTON, OF WHICH YOU'RE
AWARE.
THE COVER-UP IS WORSE THAN THE
CRIME.
ONCE THE REPORT AIRED AND
QUESTIONS WERE RAISED, THEY WERE
RAISED ALMOST INSTANTANEOUSLY,
DID CBS THEN STONE WALL THE
PROCESS?
I DIDN'T THINK IT WAS A STONE
WALL OR COVER-UP.
BUT WHAT THEY DID DO WAS PERSIST
IN STANDING BY THEIR STORY, WHEN
ALL AROUND THEM THERE WERE
WARNING SIGNALS THAT THERE WERE
MAJOR DEFECTS IN THE STORY.
ONE OF THE PROBLEMS THERE WAS
THAT THE SAME PEOPLE THAT
PRODUCED THE ORIGINAL SEPTEMBER
8th SEGMENT, WERE IN CHARGE OF
THE AFTERMATH WHEN THE
CRITICISMS BEGAN TO MOUNT.
THAT'S WHY WE RECOMMENDED TO CBS
AND WHY THEY'RE GOING TO
IMPLEMENT A NEW CAREER, THAT
WHEN THIS SITUATION ARISES AGAIN
THEY'LL HAVE MAJOR INPUT, FROM
AN INDEPENDENT TEAM THAT CAN
TAKE A FRESH LOOK AT THE SEGMENT
AND TREAT THE ON JUXS MADE AS
THEY SHOULD BE, BY MAKING A
DETAILED RE-EXAMINATION OF THE
PRODUCT.
IT SEEMS THAT MAYBE MORE THAN
JUST RED FLAGS.
AFTER THE STORY AIRED AND THE
QUESTIONS HAD BEEN RAISED, CBS
ISSUED A STATEMENT SAYING IT WAS
STANDING BY A REPORT BASED ON AN
UNIMPEACHABLE SOURCE.
AT THAT TIME, MR. BURKETT HAD
BEEN IMPEACHED.
OR AT LEAST HIS PARTISAN ROLE
WAS WELL-KNOWN.
THAT WAS AN INTERESTING WORD
IN ONE OF THEIR STATEMENTS.
WE WERE NEVER ABLE TO FIND OUT
WHERE IT CAME FROM.
BUT THERE IT WAS IN ONE OF THE
PUBLIC STATEMENTS THEY ISSUED.
I'D LIKE TO UNDERSCORE, THOUGH,
AS A NOTION THAT COVER-UP ISN'T
REALLY WHAT HAPPENED HERE.
COVER-UP WOULD IMPLY THEY KNEW
IT WAS BAD AND THEY SOMEHOW
TRIED TO HIDE THAT FACT.
THE PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THIS
THING, THOUGHT IT WAS TRUE.
AND DIDN'T LISTEN TO THE
CRITICISMS OR REACT TO THEM,
UNTIL THEY HAD ENDURED THESE 12,
ENORMOUSLY PAINFUL DAYS.
SO, MR. THORNBURGH, AS YOU
STEP BACK AND TAKE A LOOK, WHAT
IS THE OVERRIDING LESSON IN ALL
OF THIS?
WHAT IS THE MORAL TO THE STORY?
IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A
VILLAIN IN THIS STORY, IT'S
PRETTY CLEAR WHO IT IS.
IT'S HASTE.
THE HASTE WITH WHICH THIS
PROGRAM WAS BROUGHT TO AIR.
ONLY SIX DAYS AFTER THE RECEIPT
OF THE INITIAL DOCUMENTS.
IT SHOULD BE A CLEAR LESSON TO
CBS AND OTHERS, THAT THERE'S AN
ENORMOUS PRICE TO PAY FOR TRYING
TO HUSTLE A STORY ALONG AHEAD OF
ITS TIME.
VERY QUICKLY, ANY FEAR THAT
THIS PANEL'S REPORT, COULD
PRODUCE A CHILLING EFFECT THAT
WOULD KEEP OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
FROM AGGRESSIVELY REPORTING
CONTROVERSIAL STORIES INVOLVING
HIGH-RANKING OFFICIALS?
WELL, WE'RE SO AWARE OF THAT
QUESTION, THAT WE SAY TWICE IN
THE REPORT, WE HOPE THIS WON'T
BE THE CASE.
WE HOPE THAT'S NOT THE OUTCOME
HERE.
WE WROTE THIS AT CBS' REQUEST.
AND WITHOUT THEIR INTERFERENCE
IN THE HOPE OF STRENGTHENING CBS
NEWS, NOT MAKING IT TIMID.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
JOINING US TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
AND I'LL B
YOU MIGHT THINK THAT THOSE
OF US WHO COMPETE WITH CBS NEWS
TAKE SOME SATISFACTION OR EVEN
GLEE IN TODAY'S REPORT.
IN FACT, A FAR MORE COMMON
THOUGHT IS, THERE BUT FOR THE
GRACE OF GOD, GO I.
THAT'S BECAUSE ALL OF US FACED
WITH COMPETING PRESSURES OF
DEADLINES, ACCURACY AND FAIRNESS
SOMETIMES FALL SHORT, IN A
POLITICAL SEASON, THOSE
PRESSURES ARE PARTICULARLY
ACUTE.
FOR JOURNALISTS, THE EASY WAY TO
AVOID THE MISTAKES WE HEARD
ABOUT TONIGHT WOULD BE TO BACK
OFF FROM AGGRESSIVELY REPORTING
ON POLITICAL FIGURES, UP TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
PERHAPS THE BETTER APPROACH
WOULD BE FOR EVERY NEWSROOM IN
AMERICA TO PROMINENTLY DISPLAY
THE FAMOUS SLOGAN THAT ONCE HUNG
IN THE OLD CITY NEWS BUREAU OF
CHICAGO, A TRAINING GROUND FOR
JOURNALISTIC LEGISLATES.
THE SIGN READ, "IF YOU'RE MOTHER
SAYS SHE LOVES YOU, CHECK IT
OUT."
AND THAT'S OUR REPORT
FOR TONIGHT.
I'M CHRIS BURY IN WASHINGTON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT ABC NEWS,
GOOD NIGHT.
-- Captions by VITAC --